So we learned how we can store data in firebase, that's working great but it's not storing the image.
Now actually what we could theoretically do and what would be very bad to be honest, I mentioned that
in pick image, we also get the image as a base64 string and it is just a string.
Theoretically what we could do is we could just store that string here in firebase but it's a super
long and big string and this is not what this data storage is made for, it's not a file storage and even
though it's a string, it technically is like a file, it contains the whole image data,
so I strongly recommend not doing this, it's not a good practice,
not at all.
Instead firebase has this storage option it has,
it comes with storage attached to it
but the issue with that is that this storage is really only accessible through our SDK, through the firebase
SDK.
Now they have a javascript SDK, you can go visit the docs to learn more about it,
you can use that SDK to send http requests and that would work and you can use it to access the storage
and that would not really work.
The reason for this is that it's not really working nicely together with react native at least right
now,
so using the SDK for storing images is not a reliable way, it leads to errors and it does not work right
now as it should,
therefore this does not work and we can't use it. Now the storage unlike the database also has no API we
can easily target
but firebase has another cool feature we can use to work around that, firebase cloud functions. Cloud
functions are basically on-demand code repositories we can execute and that's the cool thing,
we can also target from outside like a restful API.
So we will be able to send the request to some url of our definition
and when we do this, then a specific function will run and execute code and there, we can write code to
accept an image, then do something with it and mainly store it in storage which we can access from within
function
since that runs not on our client but on firebase. Sounds a bit complex,
again this is really only because we're using firebase here as a demo,
if you have your own backend, you're writing your code anyways but this approach here will work really
well with firebase
if you don't want or can't use the SDK. For this, we need to write a so called cloud function
but no worries
that's really easy.
We need one extra tool for that though,
the firebase tools which really allow us to write such a function.
We install that through npm and we install it globally on our machine,
that is why on Mac I use sudo here to get the right permissions,
on Windows, you don't need that
and depending on your setup, you also don't need that on Mac
and then I run npm install -g and then it's firebase-tools. Hitting enter will prompt you to
enter your password or it may prompt you to do so and thereafter it will download these firebase tools. Now the
firebase tools,
that's just a cli that makes it easy to put this project under control of firebase which sounds bigger
than it is, in the end it just makes it very convenient to write and deploy a cloud function here.
So I will do just that,
I'll write
firebase init and make sure that you type this whilst being navigated into your root project folder
here,
so of that project and then it'll just ask you what you want to use. Now the default is that you want
to use that database but you can navigate down to functions and hit space to check this and you can check
other options too
but you need none of these,
no,
also not storage,
we're not going to use it like that,
we only plan on using functions here.
So therefore let's now hit enter and it will now ask you which project you want to use,
you could add a new one but I want to use awesome places,
hit enter after selecting this and then it asks you if you want to install dependencies with npm and
it's talking about sub-dependencies of that cloud function,
so hit y for yes here and thereafter,
after hitting enter, it will do just that and finish up the set up.
If you get errors like these here by the way, you may ignore that, these are in-between errors where a
fallback should be taken so it shouldn't fail with these errors, it should just throw them in between
but recover
and by the end, it should finish successfully.
Now with all that, what we got is we got a new firebase.json file which is empty,
we got a firebaserc file which basically holds a reference to the project
and here your project that
you should of course be, also use your or add to your project
if you ever download my attached files from this point on and we get this new functions folder and there,
you get a couple of pre-built files and it's the index.js file we will work on and where we will write
our function.
There you actually already have one commented out, you can comment in, this represents a function you
will be able to target via http due to this functions
https on request
event listener. Now dive into the firebase cloud function docs if you want to learn more about them
and your different options,
this is how you create a function that can be targeted
via
http request. This part here is actually what will be part of the url you target,
so feel free to change this,
I will simply name it
store image, like this.
Now inside this function here, you see you get a request and a response and we're writing this with nodejs,
that's one restriction,
you have to use nodejs here, you can't use a different language,
if you want to use a different language,
write your own backend, that's basically how it is.
So here we can use nodejs and if you ever work with Express, this is basically how it works in here
too,
you get a request and a response object, by the end of everything you have to send a response, in between
you can use the request to get data and so on.
Now the steps we have to make here, we want to make is we want to simply use this request, extract the
image, store the image in the firebase cloud storage and then return a response
once we're done, that is the goal of this function here. Now to do that, we need another external package
so navigate into the functions folder with cd functions and in there, you now can install npm install
--save, the package I want to install is now @google-cloud/storage because the
firebase storage is based on the Google Cloud storage and this is some useful SDK we can use to conveniently
store data in there.
We will also need one additional package which I also install with npm install --save,
it's called cors and this is required to allow access to our function from other origins,
so from apps not running on the same server as our firebase app does
and this of course will be the case,
our app will run on a native device and therefore not on the same server, it's not served by the same
server and therefore by default as a security mechanism, we would not be able to send requests to our
server or the server would not accept them.
Now with the cors middleware, we can basically say it's fine,
this url,
this code can be targeted from other origins and you typically implement this on restful APIs otherwise
they would not really fulfill their role as restful APIs.
With that let's write our code here to store some data and that code will now use a couple of different
steps,
the first step is to use this cors middleware or this cors package we just imported or we just added,
for this to use it,
we have to add it here in this function at the top as an import
and since we're in a nodejs environment, we use the nodejs import syntax with comment js format,
so with require and so on.
So I'm creating a new constant, cors and I required the cors package and in this package, I then actually will
execute a function where I configure it and where I set origin to true
to make sure that any origin can access this.
This alone won't do it
but now we can use this cors constant here and we actually use it as a function now, inside of our
cloud function code,
so inside of this method here which is passed to on request. There we use cors and first of all, we
need to forward the request to the cors function,
we need to forward the response and thereafter we have a function that will be executed with cors
enabled, so the rest of your code will now go into this function.
There you don't need to get any arguments,
you can now write your code in there and every other code will go in there indeed.
Now the idea in here is to extract the image and to store it, for this I'll
first of all parse the request body and firebase already does some parsing for us but we need to do
more,
I will create a new constant and name it body and I will use the json API
nodejs gives us where I can use parse to parse
request.body,
so the request object provided by firebase has a body but we need to parse this with json to turn it
into a javascript object.
This body will now contain our image,
not right now, we haven't set up any request that would target this but I expect this body to have an image
property so that we can extract the image through that. Next of all, we of course also need to write this
file, save this file to cloud storage, for this,
I temporarily need to save it here and this will be automatically removed by firebase when our function
execution finished
but I will temporarily save it here to then forward it to Google cloud storage. For that, I'll create another constant,
fs for file service and will require fs here,
we don't need to install it,
it's a default nodejs package instead
and fs has some useful functions for working with files.
So in here, I will call fs and then there is writeFileSync which means that we'll write the file and
block the execution until it's done.
Now we need to store that file and I will store it in a path which we design here, in a tmp, so temp
folder,
make sure to get this correctly,
this is a folder firebase cloud functions have access to and a folder which will be cleared regularly and
then I will create a new file in here and just name it uploaded-image.jpg,
the good thing is we will just receive jpg files by the client here.
So here I will use that, the second argument I passed to this
writeFileSync method is the image I actually want to store in this place. So here, that is body.image,
again I expect to have this image property on the parse body,
this is something we'll have to ensure as we send the requests. The third argument defines the format
of this data we get,
now this will be base64,
make sure to spell this correctly, it tells writeFileSync how to turn this into this image file
and since we get the data, the image in base64 format too, we will send this to our cloud function
in the end to then there convert it into a real image with this function or with this writeFileSync
function.
Now the fourth and last argument I pass here is a function which will be executed if that failed,
it's an arrow function here
and in case of an error, I will for one log this, you can access the firebase cloud function logs
but I also will then return a response. I will return response and on there, I will call status to set
the status code to 500 to indicate that it failed on the server and pass some json payload
where I essentially pass an error object which contains the error message I'm fetching here, so that
we also send this to the client
and I do return here so that the execution of the code won't continue,
so that we return this and we're done
and since this run synchronously, it won't continue executing before it either succeeded or failed.
Now we only reached the next line if it succeeded
therefore and here I now want to store it on Google Cloud storage,
so on the firebase cloud storage which as I said builds up on that. For that, I'll create a new constant and
I'll name it bucket, firebase cloud storage thinks in bucket, so bucket holds your files. For that I need that
Google Cloud Storage package we previously installed,
so at the top I'm also going to import this, I'll name it gcs here maybe and I will require @Google
Cloud Storage, this alone won't do the trick though, to have access rights,
we need to pass some configuration to this import,
so to the object we're importing,
so I'm going to create a new concept above this import which I'll name gcconfig for Google Cloud
config and this should be a javascript object which needs to have two properties.
The project ID, the firebase project ID to which this should be connected and a key file name which is a file you
can download from your firebase project which holds credentials,
this package we'll then temporarily use to access your firebase project.
So we need to get this file
and how do we get it?
We move over to the firebase project and on the gear
icon here at the top,
you click on project settings, there
choose service accounts and there, you now leave nodejs checked and simply generate a new private key,
click generate key and this gives you a file which you can download. Make sure to store this file in
your functions folder in your project folder,
you can then rename this, just make sure that it ends with .json,
here I'm going to name it
awesome-places.json
and again store it in that folder.
So now here we get this awesome-places.json file here with all that data,
it's that file that we should point to,
so here in key file name, I just entered the name,
.
awesome-places.json
and since once we deployed this, the whole functions folder will be deployed,
it will automatically be able to resolve this.
We also need to pass the project ID,
now you can get this, also left too early here from your settings page,
there you got your project ID, make sure to copy the entire ID and thereafter, go back and enter it here.
Now also make sure to pick your values here,
I will shut down my project once I'm done recording.
Now with that, we get this gcconfig object,
I will now pass this here as an argument to this function we essentially immediately execute here on
this import,
so I'll pass
gcconfig to it and this will ensure that we have access rights.
Now with that all done, we can scroll down and continue creating our bucket,
there we now use gcs we just initialised and configured Google Cloud Storage SDK and I will call
bucket here to create a new bucket or target a bucket to be precise, not create a new one, target a bucket.
Now you can find out the bucket name by clicking on storage in your firebase project, get started,
got it
and there, pick this name without the gs// part at the beginning.
This is what you now enter here as a bucket name, so that it can target this existing bucket to store your
files.
With that we get the buckets set up,
now we can use bucket upload to do just that,
upload a file. For that,
we first of all pass a path and that of course is the path we already set up here where we stored
our file temporarily,
so let's pass it here.
The second argument is then an object where we configure this upload request,
now here we need to do some important configurations.
First of all, we need to specify the upload type and set this to media because it's a media file, then
important, the destination, where should it be stored in your bucket
and there you can define any path,
I want to have a /places folder and in there, I will now store that file,
so here I will add the file.
Now this file maybe should receive a unique ID, for that
I will install another package which generates this ID, so with npm install --save, I will install
the package
uuid-v4 which can be used to generate just that, unique IDs.
Once this is installed, we have to import it at the top,
I'm storing it in a constant named uuid, let's maybe write it like this,
name doesn't matter though and import uuid-v4 and there, I now want to store my unique ID,
now I will generate it ahead of time here, maybe like this,
const uuid, all lowercase is uuid and now you just execute it as a function and pass this here and
then also add .jpg as a file extension because it still is a jpg file.
The next configuration you have to add is the metadata,
here I'll add the content type
which should be image/jpg to inform firebase what it really is
and I will add something very important here,
the firebase storage download tokens.
This will be required to get a convenient download link for firebase in the end,
so let's add it like this, this should be your unique ID.
Now with that we're storing this, in the next lecture
we'll continue, finish this up
and then also send a request to it.